Add documentation for content logs event provider (#180)
AdobeDocs/adobe-io-events: src/pages/guides/using/contentlogs/contentlogs-setup.md

- Use the exposed event registration endpoint for the project.

  ![Journaling API Endpoint](../../img/contentlogs/journaling_api_endpoint.png "Endpoint for Content Logs stream consumption")

- Auth token needs to be passed in the request. Which can be generated using the cURL and all credentials under Oauth of the project.

  ![Auth Token Endpoint](../../img/contentlogs/auth_token_endpoint.png "Endpoint for generating AuthToken")

- Sample cURL for consuming the events stream

  ![cURL for stream consumption](../../img/contentlogs/cURL_stream_consumption.png "Sample cURL for consumption")

- Once we invoke the API, response headers has `rel="next"` link which can be used to fetch more events.

  ![Next Link for fetching more events](../../img/contentlogs/next_link_headers.png "Fetching next link for more events")

- Sample cURL using the next link from headers.

  ![cURL for stream consumption using next link](../../img/contentlogs/cURL_stream_consumption_using_next_link.png "Sample cURL for consumption using next token")

> [Using Journaling API](https://developer.adobe.com/events/docs/guides/api/journaling-api) has more details on how to use the Journaling API to consume the stream of IO events.

Reviewer: Use relative URL here as the journaling api page is in the same repo:
```suggestion
[Using Journaling API](../../../guides/api/journaling-api.md) has more details on how to use the Journaling API to consume the stream of IO events.
```

## Event Data Structure

Content Log Events are structured in JSON format using the [CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/) spec

*Example Event*

````json
{
    "specversion": "1.0",
    "id": "6b810378-0348-5931-8168-868910a71c9a",
    "source": "urn:aio_provider_metadata:content_logs",
    "type": "com.adobe.acp.contentlogs.read",
    "datacontenttype": "application/json",
    "time": "2025-06-30T17:37:44.744110791Z",
    "eventid": "1abfc513-da4b-45ad-91ed-439ba7273b45",
    "event_id": "1abfc513-da4b-45ad-91ed-439ba7273b45",

>     "recipient_client_id": "cd549c3e50314c8fb345f27e8be27dc2",

Reviewer: I would recommend removing these fields from your sample payload as these will be eventually removed by end of 2025. See https://developer.adobe.com/events/docs/support/faq#why-do-i-see-duplicate-fields-for-recipient-client-id-and-event-id-in-the-delivered-payload

---
title: Setting Up Content Log Events streaming with Adobe I/O Events
---

# Setting up Content Log Events Streaming with Adobe I/O Events

These instructions describe how to set up and get started using Adobe I/O Events for streaming content log events. You can use Adobe I/O for streaming Content Logs that captures events when end users interact with the assets using actions such as create/update/delete.

## Introduction

Content Logs events provide all details of end user interactions with the assets. This is ideal for enterprises that require automated compliance tracking, security analytics, or integration into existing operational workflows.

It allows real-time ingestion into security and monitoring platforms such as Splunk, Microsoft Sentinel, Sumo Logic, and other SIEM or data analytics tools.

## Setup Adobe I/O

See [Getting Started with Adobe I/O Events](../../../index.md)

For basic instructions for this use case, starting from [developer.adobe.com/console](https://developer.adobe.com/console/):

> *When prompted, click the designated button to proceed*

Reviewer 2: there is no prompt. this line can be avoided

- Set up Event Registration and click `Next`
    - Provide a name and description for this event subscription

  ![Set Up registration](../../img/contentlogs/event_reg_details.png "Set Up registration")

- Configure Event Registration and click `Save configured events`

  ![Configure registration](../../img/contentlogs/add_event_notification_mode.png "Configure registration")

    - Journaling is selected by default which is used for Streaming.
    - Optionally choose whether to enable Webhook or Runtime action
        - Enable Webhook
            - We recommend batch over single webhooks
            - For `Webhook URL` a public https endpoint must be provided
            - The endpoint must be able to handle get and post requests
            - The get request must respond with the challenge query if it exists
            - The post request must respond that it received the message or the webhook will re-attempt to send several times before giving up and automatically disabling the webhook sends
        - Enable Runtime action
            - [See Setting up your Runtime Environment](https://developer.adobe.com/runtime/docs/guides/getting-started/)

>             - Select a pre-made runtime action/runtime namespace

Reviewer 2: can be re-phrased to 
select a non-web runtime action to process events from your namespace. 
Not sure what you mean by pre-made runtime namespace.

  ![Go To Next Batch](../../img/contentlogs/go_to_next_batch.png "Go to Next Batch")

- Verify Response Status 200 with content log of the updated sample event

  ![Verify Resopnse 200](../../img/contentlogs/verify_200.png "Verify 200")
  ![Check Payload](../../img/contentlogs/sample_event_received.png "Sample Event received in stream")

## Programmatic Setup for Consumption of Content Logs Stream

Once the above setup is complete and validated, we can continuously consume the stream of content logs from Adobe I/O events as and when operations are performed on assets.

- Use the exposed event registration endpoint for the project.

  ![Journaling API Endpoint](../../img/contentlogs/journaling_api_endpoint.png "Endpoint for Content Logs stream consumption")

- Auth token needs to be passed in the request. Which can be generated using the cURL and all credentials under Oauth of the project.

  ![Auth Token Endpoint](../../img/contentlogs/auth_token_endpoint.png "Endpoint for generating AuthToken")

- Sample cURL for consuming the events stream

  ![cURL for stream consumption](../../img/contentlogs/cURL_stream_consumption.png "Sample cURL for consumption")

> - Once we invoke the API, response body has `_page.last` token which needs to be passed in subsequent calls to fetch more events.

Reviewer 2: would prefer using the next link from headers as it contains the events-fast url
